yeah you're up it's 2 a.m
and you can't sleep here we go again
off you go to the sofa in an attempt to
get drowsy enough to go back to bed
the clock's ticking and it's already 5
a.m
your eyes are tired and yet you still
can't sleep
finally an hour later you head back to
bed and finally drift off
okay let's fix that and make sure you
get a good night's sleep
first let's prepare your bedroom so it
becomes the perfect sleep inducing place
your bed needs to be of a good quality
good enough that when you lay on it
you feel a sense of relaxation flow
through your body
a good pillow is important too to
properly support your spine
there are different pillows thick thin
firm soft
try out a few and find out what's best
for you
lighting is important so if your room
still has a bit of light in it
even at midnight it might be one of the
reasons you can't sleep well
go ahead and close those drapes shut oh
look
you did that and they're still letting
light in ah
don't worry pick out some thick black
curtains and put those up instead
that'll do the trick okay even if that
doesn't do it
buy a sleep mask to place over your eyes
when you hit the sack
now you need to find the right
temperature it's likely you won't have a
thermostat on hand
but the trick is to make sure your room
is neither the sahara desert
nor the north pole right in the middle
is where you want it
let's talk lights after waking up get
some bright light on your face
as soon as you can you'll become more
alert but also
sleep better at night that's because our
body has a pretty awesome internal clock
this internal clock is called the
circadian rhythm and simply put
our body tells us when we should wake up
and when we should go to bed
being in the sun or exposed to bright
lights keeps this internal clock healthy
when it's working right and you're in
bed about to sleep
you'll fall asleep much faster than
before
if you can't always be in the sun that's
okay
grab a few bright light bulbs and spread
them around your house
there's also another trick to expose
yourself to bright lights if you want to
try it
buy yourself a light therapy box these
little things simulate sunshine
and are especially useful on those
ridiculously short cloudy
cold winter days so you
me everyone we all have the habit of
staying on our phone until the last
minute
if that's not you how about the tv or
your computer
everyone's plugged into something these
days sorry but this is not contributing
to a good night's sleep for you
the best thing you can do is choose a
bedtime then set an alarm for around one
to two hours before that
when it goes off it's your sign to turn
off all those electric devices
well you don't have to turn them off but
at least stop using them
that blue light coming out of those
screens can be pretty disruptive
instead pick up a book remember those
there'll be a chance you'll fall asleep
with it on your face
you might even dream about it exercise
also helps you sleep better at night
now's the time to dust off those
dumbbells you got laying around
now i'm not talking about any roommates
but probably the best type of exercise
to improve the quality of your sleep
is cardio go out to the park and run
around for a while
no more feeling like you want to take a
nap in the middle of the day
exercise help you stay awake throughout
the day and sleep better through the
night
as for naps be careful with those that
pillow
you left on your sofa for that perfect
4pm nap
get rid of it and in general avoid naps
after 3 pm
if you really want to take a nap do it
earlier in the afternoon
use an alarm and only sleep for 15 or 20
minutes
you don't want to overdo it and be
drowsy for the rest of the day
you're looking at the ceiling trying to
fall asleep
something's not right is it supposed to
be spinning
you're feeling dizzy all of a sudden
there's an easy solution to this
scooch over to the side of your bed and
place one of your feet on the ground
you'll feel better after a few deep
breaths
late in the day caffeine is a no-no it
stays in your bloodstream for about six
to eight hours
if you're one of those people that
drinks a cup of coffee and gets really
energetic
try not to do it after three or four pm
we've all done a late night fridge run
milk and cookies are a classic
but i prefer well i'll take anything
as it turns out that's not really
helping your mission to sleep better
but there was a study that discovered
that
if you eat a meal rich in carbs four
hours before bed
it helps you sleep except another study
said
that a low-carb diet might help sleep
too
the best thing to do is see what works
for you
once you find that perfect sweet spot
you can go ahead and sit at the dinner
table without feeling guilty
this next tip involves water bath water
to be specific
a shower or bath as long as it's hot can
definitely help you
fall asleep faster not only that but it
might help you reach a deeper state of
sleep
not so deep that nothing will wake you
but deep enough for you to wake up
good as new nocturia it almost sounds
like a magical spell
but it's just what specialists call it
when you have to use the bathroom a lot
at night
no that's not magical we've all had
those moments
it feels like the biggest decision of
your life get out of bed
or tough it out so the best way to
prevent this
is not to drink liquids before bed
altogether duh it's super easy
just link it to your no electronics rule
when you wake up have a tall glass of
room temperature water
it'll kick start your day and help your
body feel fresh and rejuvenated
plus you just need to rehydrate
you're in bed but all you're able to do
is look at the ceiling
waiting to fall asleep when that happens
it's better to accept that you just
can't sleep right now
try not to stay in bed for too long
frustrated and angry
you might start mentally linking your
frustration to your bed or bedroom
you don't want to have any negative
feelings whenever you look at
what should be the most relaxing spot in
the house
the best thing to do when this happens
is to get up
do something relaxing go to your living
room and look out the window for a
couple of minutes
avoid looking at the clock you really
don't want to think about sleeping
while you're trying to distract yourself
from it
when you least expect it you'll be
sleepy again
ready to cover yourself in your bed
sheets to get those perfect
eight hours if you like to ride
and it's just one of those nights where
nothing's working
and your head feels like it's about to
burst go sit at your desk
open a notepad and write your worries
away
it might even help to keep a sleep diary
okay
here's an exercise that can help you
sleep while you're in bed
it's a type of body scan exercise
first lie flat on your back with your
legs uncrossed
place your arms by your sides and try to
relax them as much as you can
now close your eyes and focus on your
breathing
focus on it for about two minutes that
should be enough for you to start
feeling relaxed
the next step is to focus on your toes
check them all and see if you feel any
tension down there
now picture a river flowing down from
your mouth and nose
flowing gently through your entire body
going all the way down to
and out of your toes breathe deeply
and then start letting your breath
become softer and softer
do this with the soles of your feet then
your ankles
calves knees thighs keep going
until you reach your hips remember to
keep imagining a river flowing through
your body
warning if you've consumed too much
liquid before bedtime
then that river imagery is going to
trigger some urgencies
other than going to sleep lastly you can
do some soft yoga
or meditate the goal here is to help you
control your breathing to release stress
picture this you're now a master of
breathing exercises
and when you close your eyes you just
exhale
and all of your worries disappear